# Django Models

-Models define the structure of stored data, including the field types and possibly also their maximum size, default values, selection list options, help text for documentation, label text for forms, etc

- Django apps uses models to access and manage data
- Models basically refers to the database, the tables of data/information about objects.

## Model primer

- model is Djngo are defined in models.py file, in created app.
- from django.db import models

## Model Relationships:

- one to one (OneToOneField)
- one to many (ForeignKey)
- many to many (ManyToManyField)

### Feature Inside Models:

- Fields: Data attribute - column

- my_field_name = models.CharField(max_length=20, help_text='Enter field documentation')

- Common field arguments:

primary_key
help_text
default
choices

- Metadata

* Data about models

* Meta data are defined throug :
class Meta: ordering = ['-my_field_name']

- Methods

* minimally you should include str method in model, makes data readable for humans.

### Model management

Managing model basically includes, updating, or deleting records, and running select queries.

# Django Admin

- The Django admin application can use your models to automatically build a site area that you can use to create, view, update, and delete records. This can save you a lot of time during development, making it very easy to test your models and get a feel for whether you have the right data. The admin application can also be useful for managing data in production, depending on the type of website. The Django project recommends it only for internal data management (i.e. just for use by admins, or people internal to your organization), as the model-centric approach is not necessarily the best possible interface for all users, and exposes a lot of unnecessary detail about the models.