# Django Custom User

- Django ships with a built-in User model for authentication and if you’d like a basic tutorial on how to implement log in, log out, sign up and so on see the Django Login and Logout tutorial for more.

However, for a real-world project, the official Django documentation highly recommends using a custom user model instead. This provides far more flexibility down the line so, as a general rule, always use a custom user model for all new Django projects.

But how to implement one? The official documentation example is not actually what many Django experts recommend using. There is a far easier yet still powerful approach to starting off new Django projects with a custom user model which I’ll demonstrate here.

## Setup

- To start, create a new Django project from the command line. 
Here are the commands to run:
```
$ cd ~/Desktop
$ mkdir accounts && cd accounts
$ pipenv install django~=3.1.0
$ pipenv shell
(accounts) $ django-admin.py startproject config .
(accounts) $ python manage.py startapp accounts
(accounts) $ python manage.py runserver
```

## AbstractUser vs AbstractBaseUser

There are two modern ways to create a custom user model in Django: AbstractUser and AbstractBaseUser. In both cases we can subclass them to extend existing functionality however AbstractBaseUser requires much, much more work. Seriously, don’t mess with it unless you really know what you’re doing.

### Custom User Model

Creating our initial custom user model requires four steps:

1- update config/settings.py
2- create a new CustomUser model
3- create new UserCreation and UserChangeForm
4- update the admin

5- In settings.py we’ll add the accounts app and use the AUTH_USER_MODEL config to tell Django to use our new custom user model in place of the built-in User model.

6- Within INSTALLED_APPS add accounts at the bottom. Then at the bottom of the entire file, add the AUTH_USER_MODEL config.

7- update accounts/models.py with a new User model which we'll call CustomUser.

## Superuser

It's helpful to create a superuser that we can use to log in to the admin and test out log in/log out. On the command line type the following command and go through the prompts.

```
$ python manage.py createsuperuser
```

