# Matplotlib tutorial

* matplotlib is probably the single most used Python package for 2D-graphics. It provides both a very quick way to visualize data from Python and publication-quality figures in many formats. We are going to explore matplotlib in interactive mode covering most common cases.

* IPython and the pylab mode 
 is an enhanced interactive Python shell that has lots of interesting features including named inputs and outputs, access to shell commands, improved debugging and much more. When we start it with the command line argument -pylab (–pylab since IPython version 0.12), it allows interactive matplotlib sessions that have Matlab/Mathematica-like functionality.

* pyplot 
provides a convenient interface to the matplotlib object-oriented plotting library. It is modeled closely after Matlab(TM). Therefore, the majority of plotting commands in pyplot have Matlab(TM) analogs with similar arguments. Important commands are explained with interactive examples.

# seaborn tutorial

* Seaborn is a library for making statistical graphics in Python. It is built on top of matplotlib and closely integrated with pandas data structures.

* The seaborn namespace is flat; all of the functionality is accessible at the top level. But the code itself is hierarchically structured, with modules of functions that achieve similar visualization goals through different means.
We can do some functionality with seaborn  .

- A dataset-oriented API for examining relationships between multiple variables.

- Concise control over matplotlib figure styling with several built-in themes.

# Bokeh Tutorial

* Python Bokeh is a Data Visualization library that provides interactive charts and plots. Bokeh renders its plots using HTML and JavaScript that uses modern web browsers for presenting elegant, concise construction of novel graphics with high-level interactivity.


