# Django Settings Best Practices

## Managing Django Settings: Issues :

Different environments. Usually, you have several environments: local, dev, ci, qa, staging, production, etc. Each environment can have its own specific settings (for example: DEBUG = True, more verbose logging, additional apps, some mocked data, etc). You need an approach that allows you to keep all these Django setting configurations.

## 12 Factors:

- 12 Factors is a collection of recommendations on how to build distributed web-apps that will be easy to deploy and scale in the Cloud. It was created by Heroku, a well-known Cloud hosting provider. The collection consists of twelve parts:

Codebase
Dependencies
Config
Backing services
Build, release, run
Processes
Port binding
Concurrency
Disposability
Dev/prod parity
Logs

- Admin processes Each point describes a recommended way to implement a specific aspect of the project. Some of these points are covered by instruments like Django, Python, pip. Some are covered by design patterns or the infrastructure setup. In the context of this article, we are interested in one part: the Configuration. The Settings file is a small but very important part of any Django project. If you do it wrong, you’ll have a lot of issues during all phases of development. But if you do it right, it will be a good basis for your project that will allow it to grow and scale in the future. Using the environment variables approach, you can easily switch from a monolith to microservice architecture, wrap your project in Docker containers, and deploy it in any VPS or Cloud hosting platform such as: Amazon, Google Cloud, or your own Kubernetes cluster

## Django Settings: Best practices:

- Keep settings in environment variables.

- Write default values for production configuration (excluding secret keys and tokens).

- Don’t hardcode sensitive settings, and don’t put them in VCS.

- Split settings into groups: Django, third-party, project.

- Follow naming conventions for custom (project) settings.


________________________________________________________________

## What is SSH

- SSH, or Secure Shell, is a remote administration protocol that allows users to control and modify their remote servers over the Internet. The service was created as a secure replacement for the unencrypted Telnet and uses cryptographic techniques to ensure that all communication to and from the remote server happens in an encrypted manner. It provides a mechanism for authenticating a remote user, transferring inputs from the client to the host, and relaying the output back to the client.

## There are three different encryption technologies used by SSH:

- Symmetrical encryption
- Asymmetrical encryption
- Hashing.