# Trees

### Common Terminology

* Node - A Tree node is a component which may contain it’s own values, and references to other nodes
* Root - The root is the node at the beginning of the tree
* K - A number that specifies the maximum number of children any node may have in a k-ary tree. In a binary tree, k = 2.
* Left - A reference to one child node, in a binary tree
* Right - A reference to the other child node, in a binary tree
* Edge - The edge in a tree is the link between a parent and child node
* Leaf - A leaf is a node that does not have any children
* Height - The height of a tree is the number of edges from the root to the furthest leaf

### Traversals 

* There are two categories of traversals when it comes to trees:

- Depth First
- Breadth First


### Breadth First

going through each level of the tree node-by-node. So, given our starting tree one more time


### K-ary Trees

If Nodes are able to have more than 2 child nodes, we call the tree that contains them a K-ary Tree. In this type of tree, we use K to refer to the maximum number of children that each Node is able to have. Breadth-First Traversal Traversing a K-ary tree requires a similar approach to the breadth-first traversal. We are still pushing nodes into a queue, but we are now moving down a list of children of length k, instead of checking for the presence of a left and a right child. Pseudocode This process is very similar to our binary tree traversal, but now we check a list of children instead of left and right child properties.

### Adding a node

Because there are no structural rules for where nodes are “supposed to go” in a binary tree, it really doesn’t matter where a new node gets placed. One strategy for adding a new node to a binary tree is to fill all “child” spots from the top down. To do so, we would leverage the use of breadth-first traversal. During the traversal, we find the first node that does not have all its children filled and insert the new node as a child. We fill the child slots from left to right. In the event you would like to have a node placed in a specific location, you need to reference both the new node to create and the parent node upon which the child is attached to.

### Big O

The Big O time complexity for inserting a new node is O(n). Searching for a specific node will also be O(n). Because of the lack of organizational structure in a Binary Tree, the worst case for most operations will involve traversing the entire tree. If we assume that a tree has n nodes, then in the worst case we will have to look at n items, hence the O(n) complexity.
The Big O space complexity for a node insertion using breadth first insertion will be O(w), where w is the largest width of the tree. For example, in the above tree, w is 4.

A “perfect” binary tree is one where every non-leaf node has exactly two children. The maximum width for a perfect binary tree, is 2^(h-1), where h is the height of the tree. Height can be calculated as log n, where n is the number of nodes.
