# Graphs

- A graph is a non-linear data structure that can be looked at as a collection of vertices potentially connected by line segments named edges.

- some common terminology used when working with Graphs:

1-Vertex - A vertex, also called a “node”, is a data object that can have zero or more adjacent vertices.

2-Edge - An edge is a connection between two nodes.

3-Neighbor - The neighbors of a node are its adjacent nodes, i.e., are connected via an edge.

4-Degree - The degree of a vertex is the number of edges connected to that vertex.

## Breadth First

In a breadth first traversal, you are starting at a specific node. This node should be specified when calling the BreadthFirst() method. The breadth-first traversal of a graph is like that of the tree, the difference is the graphs can have cycles. When a graph has cycles and we are trying to traverse, this leaves possibility to be in an infinite ,which is bad. To prevent this, we need to had some sort of flag that specifies if we have already visited that vertices. Upon each visit, we just set the “visited” flag from false to true.

## Depth First
In a depth first traversal, we approach it a bit different than the way we do when working with a depth first traversal of a tree. Similar to how the breadth-first uses a queue, we will use a Stack for our depth-first traversal.

- Depth first traversal algorithm:

1-Push root node to the stack

2-Start a while loop while the stack isnt empty

3-Peek at top node in the stack

4-If top node has unvisited children, mark top node as visited, and then Push any unvisited children back to the stack.

5-If top node doent have any unvisited children, pop that node off the stack

6-repeat until the stack be empty.

## examples of graphs in use:

- GPS and Mapping

- Driving Directions

- Social Networks

- Airline Traffic

- Netflix uses graphs for suggestions of products

## Graph Representation

- Adjacency Matrix

An Adjacency matrix is represented through a 2-dimensional array. If there are n vertices, then we are looking at an n x n Boolean matrix ,Each Row and column represents each vertex of the data structure. The elements of both the column and the row must add up to 1 if there is an edge that connects the two, or zero if there isn’t a connection.