# Dunder Methods

- Dunder or magic methods in Python are the methods having two prefix and suffix underscores in the method name. Dunder here means “Double Under (Underscores)”. These are commonly used for operator overloading.

# Python Iterators

- Iterators provide a sequence interface to Python objects that’s memory efficient and considered Pythonic. Behold the beauty of the for-in loop!

To support iteration an object needs to implement the iterator protocol by providing the iter and next dunder methods.

Class-based iterators are only one way to write iterable objects in Python. Also consider generators and generator expressions.

- Iterator in python is an object that is used to iterate over iterable objects like lists, tuples, dicts, and sets. The iterator object is initialized using the iter() method. It uses the next() method for iteration. ... This method raises a StopIteration to signal the end of the iteration.

- used to execute a part of the program repeatedly as long as a given condition is True.

# Python Generators 

- Python provides a generator to create your own iterator function. A generator is a special type of function which does not return a single value, instead, it returns an iterator object with a sequence of values. In a generator function, a yield statement is used rather than a return statement.

- Python Generator functions allow you to declare a function that behaves likes an iterator, allowing programmers to make an iterator in a fast, easy, and clean way. An iterator is an object that can be iterated or looped upon. It is used to abstract a container of data to make it behave like an iterable object.

- There is a lot of work in building an iterator in Python. We have to implement a class with __iter__() and __next__() method, keep track of internal states, and raise StopIteration when there are no values to be returned.

This is both lengthy and counterintuitive. Generator comes to the rescue in such situations.

Python generators are a simple way of creating iterators. All the work we mentioned above are automatically handled by generators in Python.