# ES6 Syntax and Feature Overview

- ES6 stands for ECMAScript 6. ECMAScript was created to standardize JavaScript, and ES6 is the 6th version of ECMAScript, it was published in 2015, and is also known as ECMAScript 2015.

## Legend

- Variable: x
- Object: obj
- Array: arr
- Function: func
- Parameter, method: a, b, c
- String: str


* React uses ES6, so and you should be familiar with some of the new features like:

- Classes
- Arrow Functions
- Variables (let, const, var)

_________________________________________________________

# React 


- React is A JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
React embraces the fact that rendering logic is inherently coupled with other - UI logic: how events are handled, how the state changes over time, and how the data is prepared for display.

- JSX produces React “elements”.
React doesn’t require using JSX, but most people find it helpful as a visual aid when working with UI inside the JavaScript code. It also allows React to show more useful error and warning messages.

- Elements are the smallest building blocks of React apps.

- Unlike browser DOM elements, React elements are plain objects, and are cheap to create. React DOM takes care of updating the DOM to match the React elements.
React DOM compares the element and its children to the previous one, and only applies the DOM updates necessary to bring the DOM to the desired state.

- Components let you split the UI into independent, reusable pieces, and think about each piece in isolation. This page provides an introduction to the idea of components. You can find a detailed component API reference here.

- components are like JavaScript functions. They accept arbitrary inputs (called “props”) and return React elements describing what should appear on the screen.

- Components can refer to other components in their output. This lets us use the same component abstraction for any level of detail. A button, a form, a dialog, a screen: in React apps, all those are commonly expressed as components.

- All React components must act like pure functions with respect to their props.