#  Django CRUD and Forms

## Django Forms :

An HTML Form is a group of one or more fields/widgets on a web page, which can be used to collect information from users for submission to a server. Forms are a flexible mechanism for collecting user input because there are suitable widgets for entering many different types of data, including text boxes, checkboxes, radio buttons, date pickers and so on. Forms are also a relatively secure way of sharing data with the server, as they allow us to send data in POST requests with cross-site request forgery protection.

# HTML Forms

The form is defined in HTML as a collection of elements inside <form>...</form> tags, containing at least one input element of type="submit".

The form attributes define the HTTP method used to send the data and the destination of the data on the server (action):

action: The resource/URL where data is to be sent for processing when the form is submitted. If this is not set (or set to an empty string), then the form will be submitted back to the current page URL. method: The HTTP method used to send the data: post or get. The POST method should always be used if the data is going to result in a change to the server's database because this can be made more resistant to cross-site forgery request attacks. The GET method should only be used for forms that don't change user data (e.g. a search form).

# Form

The Form class is the heart of Django's form handling system. It specifies the fields in the form, their layout, display widgets, labels, initial values, valid values, and (once validated) the error messages associated with invalid fields. The class also provides methods for rendering itself in templates using predefined formats (tables, lists, etc.) or for getting the value of any element.

## Declaring a Form

The declaration syntax for a Form is very similar to that for declaring a Model, and shares the same field types (and some similar parameters). This makes sense because in both cases we need to ensure that each field handles the right types of data, is constrained to valid data, and has a description for display/documentation.

Form data is stored in an application's forms.py file, inside the application directory.

## Form fields

There are a lot of form fileds tayp but the arguments that are common to most fields are listed below (these have sensible default values):

- required: If True, the field may not be left blank or given a None value. Fields are required by default, so you would set required=False to allow blank values in the form.

- label: The label to use when rendering the field in HTML. If a label is not specified, Django will create one from the field name by capitalizing the first letter and replacing underscores with spaces.

- label_suffix: By default, a colon is displayed after the label. This argument allows you to specify a different suffix containing other character(s).

- initial: The initial value for the field when the form is displayed.

- widget: The display widget to use.

- help_text: Additional text that can be displayed in forms to explain how to use the field.

- error_messages: A list of error messages for the field. You can override these with your own messages if needed.

- validators: A list of functions that will be called on the field when it is validated.

- localize: Enables the localization of form data input.

- disabled: The field is displayed but its value cannot be edited if this is True. The default is False.