## Next.js: The React Framework

Enter Next.js, the React Framework. Next.js provides a solution to all of the above problems. But more importantly, it puts you and your team in the pit of success when building React applications.

#### Create a Next.js app

To create a Next.js app, open your terminal, cd into the directory you’d like to create the app in, and run the following command:

```
npx create-next-app nextjs-blog --use-npm --example "https://github.com/vercel/next-learn/tree/master/basics/learn-starter"

```

Next.js aims to have best-in-class developer experience and many built-in features, such as:

- An intuitive page-based routing system (with support for dynamic routes)
- Pre-rendering, both static generation (SSG) and server-side rendering (SSR) are supported on a per-page basis
Automatic code splitting for faster page loads

- Client-side routing with optimized prefetching
Built-in CSS and Sass support, and support for any CSS-in-JS library
- Development environment with Fast Refresh support
- API routes to build API endpoints with Serverless Functions
- Fully extendable


________________________________________________________________________________________________________

### What is React context?

React context allows us to pass down and use (consume) data in whatever component we need in our React app without using props.

In other words, React context allows us to share data (state) across our components more easily.

### How do I use React context?

Context is an API that is built into React, starting from React version 16.

This means that we can create and use context directly by importing React in any React project.

There are four steps to using React context:

1- Create context using the createContext method.
2- Take your created context and wrap the context provider around your component tree.
3- Put any value you like on your context provider using the value prop.
4- Read that value within any component by using the context consumer.