# Django:

- Django is a high-level Python web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design. Built by experienced developers, it takes care of much of the hassle of web development, so you can focus on writing your app without needing to reinvent the wheel. It’s free and open source.

### Why Django ?

- Ridiculously fast.

Django was designed to help developers take applications from concept to completion as quickly as possible.

- Reassuringly secure.

Django takes security seriously and helps developers avoid many common security mistakes.

- Exceedingly scalable.
 
Some of the busiest sites on the web leverage Django’s ability to quickly and flexibly scale.

- Incredibly versatile.
  
Companies, organizations and governments have used Django to build all sorts of things — from content management systems to social networks to scientific computing platforms.

### How Django Works Behind the Scenes

Django is a Python-based web framework used by millions of developers and billions of consumers through popular apps like Instagram. It is open source, meaning the code is available for free on Github and can be downloaded onto any developer’s computer and used alongside the official documentation.

ِAlmost all popular open source packages have some degree of funding involved, typically in one of three forms:

- Corporate Sponsor - A group of engineers within a larger, for-profit company decide to open-source internal code. This is how React (Facebook) and Angular (Google) emerged. Typically engineers at the company are paid, in part, to work on open source though community involvement from developers outside of the core company occurs as well. While this structure has the stability of a wealthy benefactor, there can be confusion around the licensing aspects at times.

- Solo - An individual developer initially creates code, open sources it, and retains default control. This is the case for VueJS, Tailwind CSS, and Laravel, among others. Typically the lead developer either raises contributions directly like Evan You of VueJS, offer add-on services like Spark for Laravel, or the founders provide highly-paid consulting services.

- Non-profit - This was Django’s approach early on, in 2008, when the Django Software Foundation was formed to promote, support, and advance Django.