# Open-source software

Open-source software is computer software that is released under a license in which the copyright holder grants users the rights to use, study, change, and distribute the software and its source code to anyone and for any purpose. Open-source software may be developed in a collaborative public manner. 

Contributing to open source for the first time can be scary and a little overwhelming. Perhaps you’re a Code Newbie or maybe you’ve been coding for a while but haven’t found a project you felt comfortable contributing to.

### The largest open source community in the world

Open source software is free for you to use and explore. Get involved to perfect your craft and be part of something big.

- Shape the future of software:
Your contributions help make technology better for everyone, developers and non-developers alike.

- Work with the best in the field
Amazing developers use GitHub. Contribute code to projects that change how software is built.

- Grow your skills and help others
Whatever your skill level, working on open source software is a great way to learn new things.

### How to Contribute to Open Source ?

Contributing to an open source project does not necessarily mean that you have to contribute to the codebase. You can contribute to open source in many different ways, like:

- You can add a description to a project's documentation to elaborate on a certain point
- You can give guidance on a specific project
- You can add examples to show how the code works
- You can write tutorials for the project
- You can add a translation for a project
- You can answer questions about a project (like on Stack Overflow or Reddit)
- You can offer to mentor another contributor
- You can fix typos and arrange the project's work folder correctly

### What Motivates a Developer to Contribute to Open-Source Software?

1. Improve Coding Skills
2. Gain Early Experience
3. Increase Community and Peer Recognition
4. Greater Job Prospects
5. Improve Software on a User and Business Level.