# Docker

* Docker is a set of platform as a service products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers. Containers are isolated from one another and bundle their own software, libraries and configuration files; they can communicate with each other through well-defined channels.

* With Docker it doesn’t matter if you are using a Mac, Windows, or Linux computer anymore. The entire development environment is isolated: programming language, software packages, databases, and more.

* Developers can create containers without Docker, but the platform makes it easier, simpler, and safer to build, deploy and manage containers. Docker is essentially a toolkit that enables developers to build, deploy, run, update, and stop containers using simple commands and work-saving automation through a single API

## Linux Containers

- Docker is really just Linux containers which are a type of virtualization.
Virtualization has its roots at the beginning of computer science when large, expensive mainframe computers were the norm. How could multiple programmers use the same single machine? The answer was virtualization and specifically virtual machines which are complete copies of a computer system from the operating system on up.

- If you rent space on a cloud provider like AWS they are typically not providing you with a dedicated piece of hardware. Instead you are probably sharing a physical server with hundreds or even thousands of other clients.

- What’s the downside to a virtual machine? Size and speed. A typical guest operating system can easily take up 700MB of size. So if one physical server supports three virtual machines, that’s at least 2.1GB of disk space taken up along with separate needs for CPU and memory resources.

## Install Docker

Docker Compose is an additional tool that is automatically included with Mac and Windows downloads of Docker. However if you are on Linux, you will need to add it manually. You can do this by running the command sudo pip install docker-compose after your Docker installation is complete.

To confirm Docker installed correctly we can run our first command docker run hello-world

```
docker run hello-world
```

## Django REST Framework

- Django REST Framework is added just like any other third-party app. Make sure to quit the local server Control + c if it is still running. Then on the command line type the below.

- (library) $ pipenv install djangorestframework~=3.11.0 Add it to the INSTALLED_APPS config in our settings.py file. I like to make a distinction between third-party apps and local apps as follows since the number of apps grows quickly in most projects.