
# Pain VS Suffer :

* No pain, no gain is a proverb that means in order to make progress or to be successful, one must suffer.

* pain: any grpwth will cause pain.

* Suffering: Pain without a gain or goal and depend on perspective.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________

# Big O Notation :

Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm. 

O(1) : will always execute in the same time/space

O(N) : Describes an algorithm whose performance will grow linearly and in direct proportion to the size of the input data set

0(N^2) : directly proportional to the square of its input size

0(2^N) : growth doubles with each data input

0(log N) : targets median, compares to target value, if higher/lower will take median up upper/lower limit.

__________________________________________________________________________________________________________

# Logarithms:

Programmers use logarithms to shorten the computer programming process.
Binary logarithms can be used to calculate the length of the representation of a number in the binary numeral system.

__________________________________________________________________________________________________________

# The Python Environment:


* the interpreter:The most important thing when working with python.

* Pyenv : Pyenv is a set of three tools, from which I present two here, that are pyenv(used to install python) and pyenv-virtualenv(used to configure your global tools).

we can use pyenv to install almost any python interpreter, including pypy, and anaconda,etc ..
Dependency Management

* Poetry : comes with all the tools you might need to manage your projects dependencies in a deterministic way.

* poetry helps us to easily :

1-manage projects’ dependencies.

2-separate projects through virtual environments.

3-build both applications as well as libraries without headaches.

4-Coding in Python is awesome due to the massive amount of freely available libraries, its readability, and the recently introduced type annotations.