# Data Analysis

## JupyterLab

- JupyterLab enables you to arrange your work area with notebooks, text files, terminals, and notebook outputs. JupyterLab provides a high level of integration between notebooks, documents, and activities: Drag-and-drop to reorder notebook cells and copy them between notebooks

- JupyterLab is a next-generation web-based user interface for Project Jupyter.

- Enables you to work with documents and activities such as Jupyter notebooks, text editors, terminals, and custom components in a flexible, integrated, and extensible manner, also offers a unified model for viewing and handling data formats. JupyterLab understands many file formats (images, CSV, JSON, Markdown, PDF, Vega, Vega-Lite, etc.) and can also display rich kernel output in these formats

## Numpy


NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing in Python. It is a Python library that provides a multidimensional array object, various derived objects , and an assortment of routines for fast operations on arrays, including mathematical, logical, shape manipulation, sorting, selecting, I/O, discrete Fourier transforms, basic linear algebra, basic statistical operations, random simulation and much more.

- NumPy is stands for Numerical Python, is a library consisting of multidimensional array objects and a collection of routines for processing those arrays. Using NumPy, mathematical and logical operations on arrays can be performed.

- With NumPy, we can work with multidimensional arrays.we’ll focus on 2-dimensional arrays. A two-dimensional array is also known as a matrix or ( list of lists). A matrix has rows and columns.By specifying a row number and a column number, we’re able to extract an element from a matrix.

- the core of NumPy is written in a programming language called C, which stores data differently than the Python data types. NumPy data types map between Python and C, allowing us to use NumPy arrays without any conversion hitches.

- NumPy has several different data types, the important ones are :

- float  ,  int   , string  ,  object

- With NumPy, it’s very common to combine multiple arrays into a single unified array

- NumPy makes it simple to perform mathematical operations on arrays. This is one of the primary advantages of NumPy, and makes it quite easy to do computations.

- NumPy makes it possible to test to see if rows match certain values using mathematical comparison operations like <, >, >=, <=, and ==
